hypertext markup language or HTML is a
language that defines the structure of
content on a web page development
started in 1989 at CERN by Tim burner
Lee who had just invented the world's
first web browser worldwide web the
origin of www but he needed a publishing
language to display content within it so
he chose a syntax based on the standard
generalized markup language which uses
opening and closing tags to provide
meaning to otherwise unorganized text
like H for heading p for paragraph and
most importantly a for anchor to link to
a different web page the language
underwent many changes during the
initial rise of the internet and was
standardized as HTML 5 in 2008 the
version we know and love today modern
HTML contains tags to handle a variety
of different media types like video
audio and canvas to draw custom graphics
on the Fly the typical HTML element
starts with an opening and closing tag
in the middle we have content which
might be text or additional HTML
elements called children the opening tag
may also have one or more attributes
which are key value pairs that can
customize the appearance or behavior of
the element to build your first web page
create a file named
index.html this file contains a
hierarchy of nodes based on the document
object model or Dom a web page starts
with an HTML tag and has exactly two
children a head and a body the head
contains things that aren't directly
shown in the web page like a title or a
meta tag to give the page a description
but notice how The Meta element has no
closing tag closing tags are generally
optional when an element is fully
self-contained the body contains the
actual UI for the end user we might
start with an H1 heading followed by a
paragraph of content to add an image we
use an image tag which you'll notice is
self closing then Define The Source
attribute as the file path to the image
and you'll want to give it an ALT
description to make it accessible to
robots and Screen readers what makes web
pages revolutionary though is their
ability to link to other web pages on
the information Super Highway use an
anchor tag to create a link then Define
the hre attribute as the web page that
you want to navigate to when clicked
HTML also provides structural tags like
division or div which are often used to
group elements together where they can
be styled to represent complex UI
elements like navb bars when you're
happy with your code grab the full file
path to the HTML file and paste it into
any web browser congratulations you just
built your first website this has been
hypertext markup language in 100 seconds
hit the Subscribe button so you don't
miss the upcoming sequence thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
one